CubePix.md, before:

# P2 P2 Cube Test Hardware - turn-on images

![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield]


One of the projects the P2 community is working on is a 6-sided cube of 64x64 panels.  I'm certifying the driver for use on this P2 Cube project. 

The P2 Forum Thread is found here: [P2 P2 Cube](https://forums.parallax.com/discussion/172696/p2-p2-cube/p1) 

And the repository for design and physical objects is found here [Repository: P2 P2 Cube](https://github.com/jshook/p2_p2_cube)

This is the back of my 6 x 64x64 panel driven with a 5V 60A power supply so we can test full display Brightness. 

![Cube Flattened - Back](images/flatCubeBackTestJig.jpg)

This is a snapshot of the 6 x 64x64 panel showing the driver configured for a single panel display - the pic is a shot of an animation taking place. The 1/6th panel to the right contains the correct display the remaing 5 panels to the left are receiving the same data... just one for offset for each further panel to the left.

![Cube Flattened - Front](images/flatCubeFrontTestJig.jpg)

Mark each panel with unique content.

![Cube Flattened - Front](images/flat-cube1.jpg)

Trying scrolling text around what would be the sides of the cube.

![Cube Flattened - Front](images/flat-cube2.jpg)

Repait panels in a loop (you can't see here) so the panels individually change colors randomly.

![Cube Flattened - Front](images/flat-cube3.jpg)

----

If you like my work and/or this has helped you in some way then feel free to help me out for a couple of :coffee:'s or :pizza: slices!

[![coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/black_img.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/ironsheep)

----

## License

Copyright © 2020 Iron Sheep Productions, LLC. All rights reserved.<br />
Licensed under the MIT License. <br>
<br>
Follow these links for more information:

### [Copyright](copyright) | [License](LICENSE)

[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-stephen%40ironsheep.biz-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge

[license-shield]: https://camo.githubusercontent.com/bc04f96d911ea5f6e3b00e44fc0731ea74c8e1e9/68747470733a2f2f696d672e736869656c64732e696f2f6769746875622f6c6963656e73652f69616e74726963682f746578742d646976696465722d726f772e7376673f7374796c653d666f722d7468652d6261646765

[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/ironsheep/p2-LED-Matrix-Driver.svg?style=for-the-badge

[releases]: https://github.com/ironsheep/P2-HUB75-LED-Matrix-Driver/releases

Commit message:

readying for RELEASE.   Update docs with patreon form of support

CubePix.md, after:

# P2 P2 Cube Test Hardware - turn-on images

![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield]


One of the projects the P2 community is working on is a 6-sided cube of 64x64 panels.  I'm certifying the driver for use on this P2 Cube project. 

The P2 Forum Thread is found here: [P2 P2 Cube](https://forums.parallax.com/discussion/172696/p2-p2-cube/p1) 

And the repository for design and physical objects is found here [Repository: P2 P2 Cube](https://github.com/jshook/p2_p2_cube)

This is the back of my 6 x 64x64 panel driven with a 5V 60A power supply so we can test full display Brightness. 

![Cube Flattened - Back](images/flatCubeBackTestJig.jpg)

This is a snapshot of the 6 x 64x64 panel showing the driver configured for a single panel display - the pic is a shot of an animation taking place. The 1/6th panel to the right contains the correct display the remaing 5 panels to the left are receiving the same data... just one for offset for each further panel to the left.

![Cube Flattened - Front](images/flatCubeFrontTestJig.jpg)

Mark each panel with unique content.

![Cube Flattened - Front](images/flat-cube1.jpg)

Trying scrolling text around what would be the sides of the cube.

![Cube Flattened - Front](images/flat-cube2.jpg)

Repait panels in a loop (you can't see here) so the panels individually change colors randomly.

![Cube Flattened - Front](images/flat-cube3.jpg)

----

> If you find this kind of written explanation useful, helpful I would be honored by your helping me out for a couple of :coffee:'s or :pizza: slices -or- you can support my efforts by contributing at my Patreon site!
>
> [![coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/black_img.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/ironsheep) &nbsp;&nbsp; -OR- &nbsp;&nbsp; [![Patreon](./images/patreon.png)](https://www.patreon.com/IronSheep?fan_landing=true)[Patreon.com/IronSheep](https://www.patreon.com/IronSheep?fan_landing=true)

----

## License

Copyright © 2020 Iron Sheep Productions, LLC. All rights reserved.<br />
Licensed under the MIT License. <br>
<br>
Follow these links for more information:

### [Copyright](copyright) | [License](LICENSE)

[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-stephen%40ironsheep.biz-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge

[license-shield]: https://camo.githubusercontent.com/bc04f96d911ea5f6e3b00e44fc0731ea74c8e1e9/68747470733a2f2f696d672e736869656c64732e696f2f6769746875622f6c6963656e73652f69616e74726963682f746578742d646976696465722d726f772e7376673f7374796c653d666f722d7468652d6261646765

[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/ironsheep/p2-LED-Matrix-Driver.svg?style=for-the-badge

[releases]: https://github.com/ironsheep/P2-HUB75-LED-Matrix-Driver/releases
